content/1.guide/3.writing.md, before:

---
navigation.icon: heroicons:pencil-square
---

# Writing

The true power of this theme is the ability to write documentation in Markdown.

Yes, just **Markdown**, some components if needed and that's it. A beautiful documentation with a live preview of changes in your browser. :icon{name="noto:high-voltage"}

## Markdown

With Docus, you can use **full Markdown syntax**.

::callout{type="primary"}
#summary
What is Markdown?
#content
[Markdown](https://markdownguide.com) is a **lightweight markup language** with plain text formatting syntax. It's designed so that it can be converted to HTML and many other formats using a tool by the same name.
::

### Images

You can add images using the classic Markdown syntax. They must be stored in the `public` folder which is at the root of your documentation and accessible from the root of your website.

::code-group

  ```md [index.md]
  ![ArmoniK Favicon](/favicon.ico)
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    ![ArmoniK Favicon](/favicon.ico)
  ::

::

::alert{type="info"}
Learn more about the [public folder](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/assets#public-directory).
::

## MDC

Docus use an extended Markdown syntax call [MDC](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/mdc/) to add components to Markdown.

::callout{type="primary"}
#summary
What is MDC?
#content
[MDC](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/mdc/) stands for **Markdown Components**. It's an extended Markdown syntax to add components to Markdown.
::

::alert{type="info"}
To have the full MDC experience, proper syntax highlighting, you need to install the [MDC VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Nuxt.mdc).
::

### Components

By default, Docus provide a lot of components to write documentation. You can find the full list of components in the [Elements components](https://elements.nuxt.space/).

#### Usage

To use a component, you need to write it using the MDC syntax.

::code-group

  ```md [index.md]
  ::alert{type="info"}
  This is an alert component.
  ::
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    ::alert{type="info"}
    This is an alert component.
    ::
  ::

::

::alert{type="info"}
Props are passed as attributes in the component tag with the syntax `prop="value"`.

More information about props can be found in the [MDC documentation](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/mdc#props).
::

You can also nest components.

::code-group

  ```md [index.md]
  ::hero
    :::card
      A nested card
      ::card
        A super nested card
      ::
    :::
  ::
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    ::hero
      :::card
        A nested card
        ::card
          A super nested card
        ::
      :::
    ::
  ::

::

And you can use inline components to props to `span`or to use an icon.

::code-group

  ```md [index.md]
  Hello [World]{.bg-blue-500}!
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    Hello [World]{.bg-blue-500}!
  ::

::

::alert{type="info"}
More information about the MDC syntax can be found in the [MDC documentation](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/mdc#mdc-syntax).
::

#### Mermaid

You can use [Mermaid](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/) to create diagrams.

```html [index.md]
<Mermaid>
  flowchart LR
      A-- This is the text! ---B
</Mermaid>
```

::alert{type="info"}
You can use the [Mermaid live editor](https://mermaid.live/) to create your diagrams.
::

<Mermaid>
  flowchart LR
      A-- This is the text! ---B
</Mermaid>

::alert{type="warning"}
Unlike the other components, Mermaid is not a MDC component. It's a Vue component that you can use in your Markdown. And be careful, if you add space after the `<Mermaid>` tag or before the `</Mermaid>` tag, it will not work.
::

#### Icons

Yes, that's possible and with ease. :icon{name="noto:astonished-face"}

Just find your icon in [icones.js.org](https://icones.js.org) and copy the name.

::code-group

  ```md [index.md]
  :icon{name="noto:astonished-face"}
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    :icon{name="noto:astonished-face"}
  ::

::

Commit message:

docs: add filename usage for code blocks
fix #43

content/1.guide/3.writing.md, after:

---
navigation.icon: heroicons:pencil-square
---

# Writing

The true power of this theme is the ability to write documentation in Markdown.

Yes, just **Markdown**, some components if needed and that's it. A beautiful documentation with a live preview of changes in your browser. :icon{name="noto:high-voltage"}

## Markdown

With Docus, you can use **full Markdown syntax**.

::callout{type="primary"}
#summary
What is Markdown?
#content
[Markdown](https://markdownguide.com) is a **lightweight markup language** with plain text formatting syntax. It's designed so that it can be converted to HTML and many other formats using a tool by the same name.
::

### Images

You can add images using the classic Markdown syntax. They must be stored in the `public` folder which is at the root of your documentation and accessible from the root of your website.

::code-group

  ```md [index.md]
  ![ArmoniK Favicon](/favicon.ico)
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    ![ArmoniK Favicon](/favicon.ico)
  ::

::

::alert{type="info"}
Learn more about the [public folder](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/assets#public-directory).
::

## MDC

Docus use an extended Markdown syntax call [MDC](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/mdc/) to add components to Markdown.

::callout{type="primary"}
#summary
What is MDC?
#content
[MDC](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/mdc/) stands for **Markdown Components**. It's an extended Markdown syntax to add components to Markdown.
::

::alert{type="info"}
To have the full MDC experience, proper syntax highlighting, you need to install the [MDC VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Nuxt.mdc).
::

### Components

By default, Docus provide a lot of components to write documentation. You can find the full list of components in the [Elements components](https://elements.nuxt.space/).

#### Usage

To use a component, you need to write it using the MDC syntax.

::code-group

  ```md [index.md]
  ::alert{type="info"}
  This is an alert component.
  ::
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    ::alert{type="info"}
    This is an alert component.
    ::
  ::

::

::alert{type="info"}
Props are passed as attributes in the component tag with the syntax `prop="value"`.

More information about props can be found in the [MDC documentation](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/mdc#props).
::

You can also nest components.

::code-group

  ```md [index.md]
  ::hero
    :::card
      A nested card
      ::card
        A super nested card
      ::
    :::
  ::
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    ::hero
      :::card
        A nested card
        ::card
          A super nested card
        ::
      :::
    ::
  ::

::

And you can use inline components to props to `span`or to use an icon.

::code-group

  ```md [index.md]
  Hello [World]{.bg-blue-500}!
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    Hello [World]{.bg-blue-500}!
  ::

::

::alert{type="info"}
More information about the MDC syntax can be found in the [MDC documentation](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/mdc#mdc-syntax).
::

::alert{type="info"}
For code block, we recommend you to add a filename or the terminal name to give a better understanding to the reader.

```
\```md [index.md]
<!-- ... -->
\```
```

You can see a text between `[` and `]` in the code block. This is the filename.
::

#### Mermaid

You can use [Mermaid](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/) to create diagrams.

```html [index.md]
<Mermaid>
  flowchart LR
      A-- This is the text! ---B
</Mermaid>
```

::alert{type="info"}
You can use the [Mermaid live editor](https://mermaid.live/) to create your diagrams.
::

<Mermaid>
  flowchart LR
      A-- This is the text! ---B
</Mermaid>

::alert{type="warning"}
Unlike the other components, Mermaid is not a MDC component. It's a Vue component that you can use in your Markdown. And be careful, if you add space after the `<Mermaid>` tag or before the `</Mermaid>` tag, it will not work.
::

#### Icons

Yes, that's possible and with ease. :icon{name="noto:astonished-face"}

Just find your icon in [icones.js.org](https://icones.js.org) and copy the name.

::code-group

  ```md [index.md]
  :icon{name="noto:astonished-face"}
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview" preview}
    :icon{name="noto:astonished-face"}
  ::

::
