---
navigation.icon: heroicons:folder
---

# Content Directory

Now, you know how to write documentation in Markdown and how to use MDC to add components to your documentation. But **how to organize your documentation**?

The answer is the `content` directory. It's the directory where you will store all your documentation. It's the heart of your documentation.

## Structure

There is not a specific structure to follow. You can **organize** your documentation **as you want**. Here is an example of a documentation structure:

```txt
content/
├── 0.index.md
├── 1.guide/
│   ├── 1.getting-started.md
│   ├── 2.configuration.md
│   ├── 3.writing.md
│   └── 4.content-directory.md
└── 2.api/
    ├── 1.components.md
    └── 2.directives.md
```

But there is some interesting things to know about the `content` directory.

Docus use the path and the name file to generate the path of the file.

| File | Path |
| --- | --- |
| content/index.md | / |
| content/about.md | /about |
| content/blog/index.md	| /blog |
| content/blog/hello.md |	/blog/hello |
| content/1.guide/2.installation |	/guide/installation |

As you can see, files are prefixed with a number. This is to ensure the order of the files.

::alert{type="info"}
Learn more about the [content directory](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/content-directory).
::


Now, you know everything! You can start writing your documentation.

## Filename

Please, be aware the filename is used to generate the path of the file. So, you need to be careful with the filename.

Some characters are not allowed in the filename: `<>:"/\|?*`. Also, you must not use spaces in the filename.

We recommend you to use **only lowercase characters and dashes (`-`)** to separate words. Hyphen must be removed and not replace. Also, the filename must be the title of the page.

Examples:

| Page title | Filename |
| --- | --- |
| Installation using WSL2 | `installation-using-wsl2.md` | 
| Useful commands for WSL2 | `useful-commands-for-wsl2.md` |
| How to install Node.js | `how-to-install-nodejs.md` |

::alert{type="warning"}
Having a good filename is important for SEO. So, please, take the time to choose a create filename.
::
