content/1.guide/5.customization.md, before:

---
navigation.icon: heroicons:puzzle-piece
---

# Customization

You can customize your documentation, from colors to layout.

## Colors

You can change the colors of your documentation using a `tokens.config.ts` file.

Currently, `tokens.config.ts` looks like this:

```ts [tokens.config.ts]
import { defineTheme } from 'pinceau'

export default defineTheme({
  color: {
    primary: {
      50: '#fff7ed',
      100: '#ffedd5',
      200: '#fed7aa',
      300: '#fdba74',
      400: '#fb923c',
      500: '#f97316',
      600: '#ea580c',
      700: '#c2410c',
      800: '#9a3412',
      900: '#7c2d12',
    }
  }
})
```

::alert{type="info"}
You can learn more about [Pinceau](https://pinceau.dev/).
::

## Page

You can remove the toc, bottom or the aside per page using the front-matter.

```md [content\1.guide\5.customization.md]
---
toc: false
bottom: false
aside: false
---
```

::alert{type="info"}
You can learn more about [pages](https://docus.dev/api/layouts).
::

## Layout

You can enable a fluid layout using a `app.config.ts` file.

```ts [app.config.ts]
export default defineAppConfig({
  docus: {
    main: {
      fluid: true
      padded: true
    },
    header: {
      fluid: true
    },
    footer: {
      fluid: true
    }
  }
})
```

::alert{type="info"}
You can learn more about [Docus configuration](https://docus.dev/introduction/configuration).
::

Commit message:

docs: add about loading bar fix #25

content/1.guide/5.customization.md, after:

---
navigation.icon: heroicons:puzzle-piece
---

# Customization

You can customize your documentation, from colors to layout.

## Colors

You can change the colors of your documentation using a `tokens.config.ts` file.

### Theme

Currently, colors for the theme in `tokens.config.ts` looks like this:

```ts [tokens.config.ts]
import { defineTheme } from 'pinceau'

export default defineTheme({
  color: {
    primary: {
      50: '#fff7ed',
      100: '#ffedd5',
      200: '#fed7aa',
      300: '#fdba74',
      400: '#fb923c',
      500: '#f97316',
      600: '#ea580c',
      700: '#c2410c',
      800: '#9a3412',
      900: '#7c2d12',
    }
  }
})
```
But you can easily change colors to correspond to your brand.

::alert{type="info"}
You can learn more about [Pinceau](https://pinceau.dev/).
::

### Loading bar

You can easily change the color of the loading bar using the `docus.loadingBar` option in `tokens.config.ts`.

```ts [tokens.config.ts]
export default defineTheme({
   docus: {
    loadingBar: {
      height: '3px',
      gradientColorStop1: '#f4271c',
      gradientColorStop2: '#f49321',
      gradientColorStop3: '#f0dd28'
    }
  }
})
```

## Page

You can remove the toc, bottom or the aside per page using the front-matter.

```md [content\1.guide\5.customization.md]
---
toc: false
bottom: false
aside: false
---
```

::alert{type="info"}
You can learn more about [pages](https://docus.dev/api/layouts).
::

## Layout

You can enable a fluid layout using a `app.config.ts` file.

```ts [app.config.ts]
export default defineAppConfig({
  docus: {
    main: {
      fluid: true
      padded: true
    },
    header: {
      fluid: true
    },
    footer: {
      fluid: true
    }
  }
})
```

::alert{type="info"}
You can learn more about [Docus configuration](https://docus.dev/introduction/configuration).
::
