content/1.guide/6.validate-docs-generation.md, before:

---
navigation.icon: heroicons:check-circle
---

# Validate Docs Generation

> Make sure everything is working as expected before deployment

## GitHub Pages

You can easily verify your documentation generation with the following steps:

::list{type="primary"}
- Create a new file in the `.github/workflows` directory named `validate-docs-generation.yml`. But you can also add it to your existing CI workflow.
- Add the [content below](#workflow-file) to the file.
- Push to main to enable the workflow.
::

From now, each time you create a PR against the main branch, the workflow will be triggered. This ensures that your deployment will never fail in the future and your code and markdown is correctly formatted.

### Workflow file

```yaml [.github/workflows/validate-docs-generation.yml]
name: Validate Docs Generation

on:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - main

concurrency:
  group: ${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.ref }}
  cancel-in-progress: true

jobs:
  generate-docs:
    name: Generate Docs
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - run: npm i -g pnpm @antfu/ni

      - name: Setup Node
        uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: 18
          cache: "pnpm"
          cache-dependency-path: ".docs/pnpm-lock.yaml"

      - name: Install dependencies
        run: cd .docs && nci

      - name: Use NODE_ENV=production
        run: echo "NODE_ENV=production" >> $GITHUB_ENV

      - name: Static HTML export with Nuxt
        run: cd .docs && nr generate


  lint-markdown:
    name: Lint Markdown
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - run: npm i -g pnpm @antfu/ni

      - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: 18
          cache: pnpm
          cache-dependency-path: ".docs/pnpm-lock.yaml"

      - run: cd .docs && nci

      - run: cd .docs && nr lint:md

  lint:
    name: Lint
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - run: npm i -g pnpm @antfu/ni

      - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: 18
          cache: pnpm
          cache-dependency-path: ".docs/pnpm-lock.yaml"

      - run: cd .docs && nci

      - run: cd .docs && nr lint
```

::alert{type="warning"}
Update `.docs` with the path to your documentation directory.
::

### Lint and format

In order to unified the code and markdown formatting, you can use the following commands, we use [`eslint`](https://eslint.org/), [`markdownlint`](https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli) and [`case-police`](https://github.com/antfu/case-police).

First, you need to install the following dependencies:

```bash
pnpm add -D eslint @nuxtjs/eslint-config-typescript markdownlint-cli case-police
```

#### Configuration files

You need to add these files in your docs folder.

```json [.eslintrc]
{
  "extends": "@nuxtjs/eslint-config-typescript",
  "rules": {
    "vue/multi-word-component-names": [
      0
    ],
    "vue/no-multiple-template-root": [
      0
    ],
    "vue/no-restricted-syntax": [
      "error",
      {
        "selector": "VElement[name='a']",
        "message": "Use NuxtLink instead."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

```txt [.eslintignore]
dist
node_modules
.output
.nuxt
```

```yaml [.markdownlint.yml]
# Default state for all rules
default: true
# Disable max line length
MD013: false
# Disable space after hash on atx style heading
MD018: false
# Allow duplicated heading for different sections
MD024:
  allow_different_nesting: true
  siblings_only: true
# Allow multiple top-level headings
MD025: false
# Allow inline HTML
MD033: false
# Allow non blank lines around list
MD032: false
MD046:
  style: fenced
```

```txt [.markdownlintignore]
**/node_modules

content/0.index.md
```

#### Commands

You must also add script to `package.json`

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "lint": "eslint --cache .",
    "lint:fix": "eslint --cache --fix .",
    "lint:md": "markdownlint . && case-police ./**/*.md",
    "lint:md:fix": "markdownlint . --fix && case-police --fix ./**/*.md",
  }
}
```

And *voilà*! You can now lint and format your code and markdown with the following commands:

```bash
# Lint
pnpm run lint
# Lint and fix
pnpm run lint:fix
# Lint markdown
pnpm run lint:md
# Lint and fix markdown
pnpm run lint:md:fix
```

Commit message:

docs: add eslintcache to gitignore

content/1.guide/6.validate-docs-generation.md, after:

---
navigation.icon: heroicons:check-circle
---

# Validate Docs Generation

> Make sure everything is working as expected before deployment

## GitHub Pages

You can easily verify your documentation generation with the following steps:

::list{type="primary"}
- Create a new file in the `.github/workflows` directory named `validate-docs-generation.yml`. But you can also add it to your existing CI workflow.
- Add the [content below](#workflow-file) to the file.
- Push to main to enable the workflow.
::

From now, each time you create a PR against the main branch, the workflow will be triggered. This ensures that your deployment will never fail in the future and your code and markdown is correctly formatted.

### Workflow file

```yaml [.github/workflows/validate-docs-generation.yml]
name: Validate Docs Generation

on:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - main

concurrency:
  group: ${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.ref }}
  cancel-in-progress: true

jobs:
  generate-docs:
    name: Generate Docs
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - run: npm i -g pnpm @antfu/ni

      - name: Setup Node
        uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: 18
          cache: "pnpm"
          cache-dependency-path: ".docs/pnpm-lock.yaml"

      - name: Install dependencies
        run: cd .docs && nci

      - name: Use NODE_ENV=production
        run: echo "NODE_ENV=production" >> $GITHUB_ENV

      - name: Static HTML export with Nuxt
        run: cd .docs && nr generate


  lint-markdown:
    name: Lint Markdown
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - run: npm i -g pnpm @antfu/ni

      - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: 18
          cache: pnpm
          cache-dependency-path: ".docs/pnpm-lock.yaml"

      - run: cd .docs && nci

      - run: cd .docs && nr lint:md

  lint:
    name: Lint
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - run: npm i -g pnpm @antfu/ni

      - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
        with:
          node-version: 18
          cache: pnpm
          cache-dependency-path: ".docs/pnpm-lock.yaml"

      - run: cd .docs && nci

      - run: cd .docs && nr lint
```

::alert{type="warning"}
Update `.docs` with the path to your documentation directory.
::

### Lint and format

In order to unified the code and markdown formatting, you can use the following commands, we use [`eslint`](https://eslint.org/), [`markdownlint`](https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli) and [`case-police`](https://github.com/antfu/case-police).

First, you need to install the following dependencies:

```bash
pnpm add -D eslint @nuxtjs/eslint-config-typescript markdownlint-cli case-police
```

#### Configuration files

You need to add these files in your docs folder.

```json [.eslintrc]
{
  "extends": "@nuxtjs/eslint-config-typescript",
  "rules": {
    "vue/multi-word-component-names": [
      0
    ],
    "vue/no-multiple-template-root": [
      0
    ],
    "vue/no-restricted-syntax": [
      "error",
      {
        "selector": "VElement[name='a']",
        "message": "Use NuxtLink instead."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

```txt [.eslintignore]
dist
node_modules
.output
.nuxt
```

```yaml [.markdownlint.yml]
# Default state for all rules
default: true
# Disable max line length
MD013: false
# Disable space after hash on atx style heading
MD018: false
# Allow duplicated heading for different sections
MD024:
  allow_different_nesting: true
  siblings_only: true
# Allow multiple top-level headings
MD025: false
# Allow inline HTML
MD033: false
# Allow non blank lines around list
MD032: false
MD046:
  style: fenced
```

```txt [.markdownlintignore]
**/node_modules

content/0.index.md
```

#### Commands

You must also add script to `package.json`

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "lint": "eslint --cache .",
    "lint:fix": "eslint --cache --fix .",
    "lint:md": "markdownlint . && case-police ./**/*.md",
    "lint:md:fix": "markdownlint . --fix && case-police --fix ./**/*.md",
  }
}
```

::alert{type="warning"}
You must add `.eslintcache` to your `.gitignore` file.
::

And *voilà*! You can now lint and format your code and markdown with the following commands:

```bash
# Lint
pnpm run lint
# Lint and fix
pnpm run lint:fix
# Lint markdown
pnpm run lint:md
# Lint and fix markdown
pnpm run lint:md:fix
```
